#summary Announcements.
#labels Phase-Support,Phase-Deploy
<wiki:toc max_depth="2" />

= Tellurium Announcements =

== Tellurium UI Model Plugin (TrUMP) 0.1.0 is released ==

We are glad to announce that TrUMP 0.1.0 Release is out and please download it from Tellurium download page at

http://code.google.com/p/aost/downloads/list


The release includes two xpi files, one for Firefox 3 and one for firefox 2. Basically they are the same, the firefox 3 one utilized some advanced features provided by Firefox 3 to display UI.

The main features of TrUMP 0.1.0 include

  # Record user's clicks to automatically generate UI module
  # Validate the UI module
  # Customize the UI module
  # Export the generated UI module to a groovy file
  # Logging support
  # Preference support

The known issues or limitations include

  # Cannot record popup/dialog window
  # Does not support Frames
  # Does not support UI template yet. This feature will be provided in later versions.

The detailed steps on how to install and use TrUMP could be found at,

 http://code.google.com/p/aost/wiki/TrUMP


On the download page, we provide video demos on how to use TrUMP to create UI modules and how to write Tellurium tests using the generated UI module. We also provide a presentation about Tellurium there. 

If you are interested in how TrUMP is implemented, you can find the following tutorial,

  http://code.google.com/p/aost/wiki/HowTrUMPWorks 


It would be really helpful for us to improve TrUMP if you could try it and post your problems and suggestions to Tellurium user group at

  http://groups.google.com/group/tellurium-users


Thanks in advance,

Tellurium team

== Tellurium 0.6.0 RC1 is out ==

Tellurium 0.6.0 RC1 includes the following modules:

  * Tellurium Core 0.6.0 RC1
  * Tellurium JUnit Reference Project 0.6.0 RC1
  * Tellurium TestNG Reference Project 0.6.0 RC1
  * Tellurium JUnit Maven Archetype 1.0 RC1
  * Tellurium TestNG Maven Archetype 1.0 RC1
  * Customized Selenium Server 1.0-te-2

Tellurium 0.6.0 is a feature rich release and please check [http://code.google.com/p/aost/wiki/WhatsNewInTellurium_0_6_0 Whats New in Tellurium 0.6.0] for a detailed introduction of them. For RC1, please replace 0.6.0 with 0.6.0.RC1 and 1.0 with 1.0.RC1 for the configurations in the wiki page.
 
The Tellurium 0.6.0 RC1 Code base is at 

http://aost.googlecode.com/svn/branches/tellurium-0.6.0-RC01

Please go to Tellurium Download page 

http://code.google.com/p/aost/downloads/list

to download the following artifacts

  * tellurium-core.0.6.0.RC1.jar:  Tellurium Core 0.6.0 RC1 jar file
  * tellurium-core.0.6.0.RC1-with-dependencies.jar: Tellurium Core 0.6.0 RC1 jar with Dependencies, one jar file includes all dependent jars
  * reference-junit-0.6.0.RC1.tar.gz: Tellurium 0.6.0 RC1 JUnit Reference Project
  * reference-testng-0.6.0.RC1.tar.gz: Tellurium 0.6.0 RC1 TestNG Reference Project

If you use ant to build project, you can simply include tellurium-core.0.6.0.RC1-with-dependencies.jar in your build path. You can also run the customized selenium server using the following command,

{{{
 java -jar tellurium-core-0.6.0.RC1-with-dependencies.jar 
}}}

and use

{{{
java -cp tellurium-core-0.6.0.RC1-with-dependencies.jar:. org.tellurium.dsl.DslScriptExecutor dsl_script_file
}}}

to run DSL scripts.

The best way to get Tellurium 0.6.0 RC1 is to use Tellurium Maven Archetypes. For a JUnit project, use the following Maven command

mvn archetype:create -DgroupId=your_group_id -DartifactId=your_artifact_id \
-DarchetypeArtifactId=tellurium-junit-archetype \
-DarchetypeGroupId=tellurium -DarchetypeVersion=1.0.RC1-SNAPSHOT \
-DarchetypeRepository=http://kungfuters.org/nexus/content/repositories/snapshots

and use 

mvn archetype:create -DgroupId=your_group_id -DartifactId=your_artifact_id \
-DarchetypeArtifactId=tellurium-testng-archetype -DarchetypeGroupId=tellurium \
-DarchetypeVersion=1.0.RC1-SNAPSHOT \
-DarchetypeRepository=http://kungfuters.org/nexus/content/repositories/snapshots

to create a TestNG project.

If you want to manually add Tellurium 0.6.0 RC1 to your Maven project, please include the following dependencies:

{{{
      <dependency>
          <groupId>org.openqa.selenium.grid</groupId>
          <artifactId>selenium-grid-tools</artifactId>
          <version>1.0.2</version>
        </dependency> 

        <dependency>
            <groupId>tellurium</groupId>
            <artifactId>tellurium-core</artifactId>
            <version>0.6.0.RC1-SNAPSHOT</version>
            <scope>compile</scope>
        </dependency>
        <dependency>
            <groupId>org.seleniumhq.selenium.server</groupId>
            <artifactId>selenium-server</artifactId>
            <version>1.0-te-2</version>
        </dependency>
        <dependency>
            <groupId>org.seleniumhq.selenium.client-drivers</groupId>
            <artifactId>selenium-java-client-driver</artifactId>
            <version>1.0-beta-2</version>
            <exclusions>
                <exclusion>
                    <groupId>org.codehaus.groovy.maven.runtime</groupId>
                    <artifactId>gmaven-runtime-default</artifactId>
                </exclusion>
                <exclusion>
                    <groupId>org.seleniumhq.selenium.core</groupId>
                    <artifactId>selenium-core</artifactId>
                </exclusion>
                <exclusion>
                    <groupId>org.seleniumhq.selenium.server</groupId>
                    <artifactId>selenium-server</artifactId>
                </exclusion>
            </exclusions>
        </dependency>
        <dependency>
            <groupId>org.codehaus.groovy</groupId>
            <artifactId>groovy-all</artifactId>
            <version>1.6.0</version>
            <scope>compile</scope>
        </dependency>
        <dependency>
            <groupId>caja</groupId>
            <artifactId>json_simple</artifactId>
            <version>r1</version>
        </dependency>
        <dependency>
            <groupId>org.stringtree</groupId>
            <artifactId>stringtree-json</artifactId>
            <version>2.0.10</version>
        </dependency>
}}}

and the following repositories,

{{{
   <repositories>
        <repository>
            <id>caja</id>
            <url>http://google-caja.googlecode.com/svn/maven</url>
        </repository>
        <repository>
            <id>kungfuters-public-snapshots-repo</id>
            <name>Kungfuters.org Public Snapshot Repository</name>
            <releases>
                <enabled>false</enabled>
            </releases>
            <snapshots>
                <enabled>true</enabled>
            </snapshots>
            <url>http://kungfuters.org/nexus/content/repositories/snapshots</url>
        </repository>
        <repository>
            <id>kungfuters-public-releases-repo</id>
            <name>Kungfuters.org Public Releases Repository</name>
            <releases>
                <enabled>true</enabled>
            </releases>
            <snapshots>
                <enabled>false</enabled>
            </snapshots>
            <url>http://kungfuters.org/nexus/content/repositories/releases</url>
        </repository>
        <repository>
            <id>kungfuters-thirdparty-releases-repo</id>
            <releases>
                <enabled>true</enabled>
            </releases>
            <snapshots>
                <enabled>false</enabled>
            </snapshots>
            <url>http://kungfuters.org/nexus/content/repositories/thirdparty</url>
        </repository>
        <repository>
            <id>openqa-release-repo</id>
            <releases>
                <enabled>true</enabled>
            </releases>
            <snapshots>
                <enabled>false</enabled>
            </snapshots>
            <url>http://archiva.openqa.org/repository/releases</url>
        </repository>
    </repositories>
}}}

Here is the latest Tellurium Configuration file, [http://code.google.com/p/aost/wiki/TelluriumSampleConfigurationFile TelluriumConfig.groovy].

Please report any problems back to Tellurium User Group at

http://groups.google.com/group/tellurium-users

Thanks,

Tellurium Team

== Tellurium 0.6.0 is Released ==

Tellurium 0.6.0 includes the following modules:

  * Tellurium Core 0.6.0
  * Tellurium JUnit Reference Project 0.6.0
  * Tellurium TestNG Reference Project 0.6.0
  * Tellurium JUnit Maven Archetype 1.0
  * Tellurium TestNG Maven Archetype 1.0
  * Customized Selenium Server 1.0.1-te

=== New Features ===

Tellurium 0.6.0 is a feature rich release and the biggest move from Tellurium core 0.5.0 to 0.6.0 is the addition of jQuery selector support together with jQuery Selector Cache option, Selenium Grid support, New APIs for bulk data retrival and css styles, and numerous other enhancements. Please check [http://code.google.com/p/aost/wiki/WhatsNewInTellurium_0_6_0 Whats New in Tellurium 0.6.0] for a detailed introduction of them.

We customized selenium-core 1.0.1 and embedded our Engine code into it. The Engine mainly provides jQuery selector support, jQuery selector caching, and a set of new APIs. 

=== How to Obtain Tellurium 0.6.0 ===

For a Maven user, the best way to obtain Tellurium 0.6.0 is to use Tellurium Maven archetypes, which include tellurium-junit-archetype and tellurium-testng-archetype for Tellurium JUnit test project and Tellurium TestNG test project, respectively.

To create a Tellurium JUnit test project, the the following Maven command,

{{{
mvn archetype:create -DgroupId=your_group_id -DartifactId=your_artifact_id -DarchetypeArtifactId=tellurium-junit-archetype -DarchetypeGroupId=tellurium -DarchetypeVersion=1.0 -DarchetypeRepository=http://kungfuters.org/nexus/content/repositories/releases
}}} 

and for a Tellurium TestNG project, use

{{{
mvn archetype:create -DgroupId=your_group_id -DartifactId=your_artifact_id -DarchetypeArtifactId=tellurium-testng-archetype -DarchetypeGroupId=tellurium -DarchetypeVersion=1.0 -DarchetypeRepository=http://kungfuters.org/nexus/content/repositories/releases
}}} 

The skeleton project created by the Tellurium Maven archetype type includes a sample test case, GoogleSearchTestCase. You can simply go to the project directory and run the following command to test it,

{{{
mvn test
}}}

If you have already had a test project and want to include Tellurium 0.6.0 in, please add the following section to your POM file,

{{{
   <repositories>
        <repository>
            <id>caja</id>
            <url>http://google-caja.googlecode.com/svn/maven</url>
        </repository>
        <repository>
            <id>kungfuters-public-releases-repo</id>
            <name>Kungfuters.org Public Releases Repository</name>
            <releases>
                <enabled>true</enabled>
            </releases>
            <snapshots>
                <enabled>false</enabled>
            </snapshots>
            <url>http://kungfuters.org/nexus/content/repositories/releases</url>
        </repository>
        <repository>
            <id>kungfuters-thirdparty-releases-repo</id>
            <releases>
                <enabled>true</enabled>
            </releases>
            <snapshots>
                <enabled>false</enabled>
            </snapshots>
            <url>http://kungfuters.org/nexus/content/repositories/thirdparty</url>
        </repository>
        <repository>
            <id>openqa-release-repo</id>
            <releases>
                <enabled>true</enabled>
            </releases>
            <snapshots>
                <enabled>false</enabled>
            </snapshots>
            <url>http://archiva.openqa.org/repository/releases</url>
        </repository>
    </repositories>

    <dependencies>
        <dependency>
          <groupId>org.openqa.selenium.grid</groupId>
          <artifactId>selenium-grid-tools</artifactId>
          <version>1.0.2</version>
        </dependency> 

        <dependency>
            <groupId>tellurium</groupId>
            <artifactId>tellurium-core</artifactId>
            <version>0.6.0</version>
            <scope>compile</scope>
        </dependency>
        <dependency>
            <groupId>org.seleniumhq.selenium.server</groupId>
            <artifactId>selenium-server</artifactId>
            <version>1.0.1-te</version>
        </dependency>
        <dependency>
            <groupId>org.seleniumhq.selenium.client-drivers</groupId>
            <artifactId>selenium-java-client-driver</artifactId>
            <version>1.0.1</version>
            <exclusions>
                <exclusion>
                    <groupId>org.codehaus.groovy.maven.runtime</groupId>
                    <artifactId>gmaven-runtime-default</artifactId>
                </exclusion>
                <exclusion>
                    <groupId>org.seleniumhq.selenium.core</groupId>
                    <artifactId>selenium-core</artifactId>
                </exclusion>
                <exclusion>
                    <groupId>org.seleniumhq.selenium.server</groupId>
                    <artifactId>selenium-server</artifactId>
                </exclusion>
            </exclusions>
        </dependency>
        <dependency>
            <groupId>org.codehaus.groovy</groupId>
            <artifactId>groovy-all</artifactId>
            <version>1.6.0</version>
            <scope>compile</scope>
        </dependency>
        <dependency>
            <groupId>caja</groupId>
            <artifactId>json_simple</artifactId>
            <version>r1</version>
        </dependency>
        <dependency>
            <groupId>org.stringtree</groupId>
            <artifactId>stringtree-json</artifactId>
            <version>2.0.10</version>
        </dependency>
    </dependencies>
}}}

Here is a [http://code.google.com/p/aost/wiki/TelluriumTestProjectMavenSamplePom sample POM file] for a Tellurium project.

For an Ant user, you should download [http://aost.googlecode.com/files/tellurium-core-0.6.0.jar Tellurium core 0.6.0 jar file] from [http://code.google.com/p/aost/downloads/list Tellurium project download page], [http://aost.googlecode.com/files/tellurium-0.6.0-dependencies.zip the Tellurium dependency file], and [http://code.google.com/p/aost/wiki/TelluriumSampleConfigurationFile the Tellurium configuration file]. Unpack the Tellurium dependency file to your project /lib directory together with the Tellurium core 0.6.0 jar file. Name the Tellurium configuration file as TelluriumConfig.groovy and put it at your project root directory. 

For Ant build scripts, please see [http://code.google.com/p/aost/wiki/TelluriumSampleAntBuildScript the sample Tellurium Ant build scripts]

=== Tellurium Reference Projects ===

If you are new to Tellurium, [http://code.google.com/p/aost/wiki/ReferenceProjectGuide Tellurium reference projects] could be your good starting point. There are two reference projects, i.e., [http://aost.googlecode.com/files/reference-junit.0.6.0.tar.gz tellurium-junit-java] and [http://aost.googlecode.com/files/reference-testng.0.6.0.tar.gz tellurium-testng-java], where can be downloaded from [http://code.google.com/p/aost/downloads/list Tellurium project download page].

Basically, the two sub-projects are the same and the only difference is that tellurium-junit-java uses JUnit 4 and tellurium-testng-java uses TestNG. 

The reference projects illustrate the following usages of Tellurium:

  * How to create your own Tellurium testing project using tellurium jar files.
  * How to create your own UI Objects and wire them into Tellurium core
  * How to create UI module files in Groovy
  * How to create JUnit tellurium testing files in Java
  * How to create and run DSL scripts
  * How to create Tellurium Data Driven tests
  * How to configure Tellurium with the configuration file TelluriumConfig.groovy
  * Ant build script
  * Maven POM

=== Feedback ===

Please report any problems back to Tellurium User Group at

http://groups.google.com/group/tellurium-users

Thanks,

Tellurium Team