#summary Tellurium Contributor List
#labels Phase-Support
<wiki:toc max_depth="5" />

Tellurium Contributors are categorized into development team, support team, evangelism team, and users. Former team members are also listed here.

== Tellurium Team ==

=== Development Team ===

  * *Jian Fang*: Jian graduated from Georgia Institue of Technology with a Ph.D. degree. He works as a senior software engineer in a company and mainly focuses on architecting, desigining, and implementing enterprise applications. He is both a researcher and a developer. He is the Tellurium project Lead and the principle developer. Tellurium Core, TrUMP 0.1.0, jQuery Selector, Reference Projects, Widget Projects, Tellurium Maven Archetypes, and Engine 0.1.0.

  * *Vivek Mongolu*: TrUMP prototype, Trump 0.1.0, and Trump 0.2.0. Presented Tellurium at CodeStock 2009. Presented Tellurium at Rich Web Experience 2009.

  * *Haroon Rasheed*: Tellurium Reference projects, Selenium Grid support, TestNG Report support, and Tellurium Linkedin Group management.

  * *Mikhail Koryak*: TrUMP 0.1.0 and jQuery support for Tellurium

  * *Jeff Xiong*: 

  * *Ajay Ravichandran*: Internationalization, Excel data reader

  * *Mahendra Kariya*: User Guide Wiki
  
  * *Harihara Vinayakaram*:

  * *Rajan Pokhrel*: Rajan Pokhrel is graduating from Maharishi University of Management from Fairfield, Iowa with MS in Computer Science. He worked as a Software Engineer for several years and currently occupied a Senior Software Engineer position in a company based in Silicon Valley. Tellurium Core Engine, Tellurium-Reference Guide.    

=== Build and Release ===

  * *Matt Senter*: Came up with the name "Tellurium", Tellurium Maven support, Tellurium build and release, and Tellurium Maven repository and Hudson maintenance. Donated Tellurium Maven Nexus server and Tellurium Hudson server.

=== Quality Assurance ===

  * *Kamal Ahmed*: [http://www.facebook.com/group.php?gid=298577410337&ref=mf Tellurium Facebook Group] Admin.

=== Documentation ===

  * *Davlyn Jones*: User Guide 0.6.0

  * *Ramesh Ramamurthy*: Article revision

=== Evangelism Team ===

  * *Kevin Zhang*: Interviewed Jian Fang on behalf of InfoQ China and administrator of the Tellurium Chinese document site.

== Community Contributors ==

Robert Fletcher: Tellurium Grails Plugin (http://github.com/robfletcher/grails-tellurium).

== Other Contributors ==

Jared Rawlinson ([http://citystormmedia.com City Storm Media]): Tellurium Project Logo Design.

== Outstanding Tellurium Users ==

=== 2008 - 2009 ===

  * Most Active User: *Harihara Vinayakaram*  

  * Most Valuable User: *Dominic Mooney*  

=== 2009 - 2010 ===

  * Most Active User: *Jonathan Share*  

  * Most Valuable User: *Dominic Mooney* 

== Past Members ==

   * *Quan Bui*: Quan worked on Tellurium reference projects and proposed the ExtJs widget project.

  * *Adrian Carr*: Adrian used Tellurium prototype for an internal project and provided us many good suggestions. He also proposed the full name "Tellurium Automated Testing Framework".

== Want to Contribute ? ==

Please see [http://code.google.com/p/aost/wiki/HowToContribute How to Contribute to Tellurium] if you want to contribute to Tellurium and be added into the list.