#labels Phase-Design,Phase-Implementation
== Tellurium Data Driven Testing ==

Data driven testing is a new feature in Tellurium 0.4.0. The system diagram is shown in Figure 1. 

http://tellurium-users.googlegroups.com/web/tellurium.data.driven.jpg?gda=_1pLcEsAAACjbvY1r0rMz6MRbvC-tSqoysMSW8LOE1CninSxbdL8I2ArWKkWH9uGyxs8H0RkPsAdq11J_EY5XIrmvbkBlJwJBkXa90K8pT5MNmkW1w_4BQ&gsc=httiOwsAAAAISLBF63vg48UkWer0gDjz

Figure 1. System Diagram for Tellurium Data Driven Testing

The tellurium data driven test consists of three main parts, i.e., Data Provider, TelluriumDataDrivenModule, and TelluriumDataDrivenTest. 

=== Data Provider ===

The data provider is the responsible for reading data from input stream and converting data to Java variables in data driven tests. As shown in Figure 1, the data reader reads data from the input stream line by line and turns the results to the FieldSet-to-Object mapper, which maps the data to the appropriate FieldSet. Then, the varaiable binder binds the data to variables defined in the test according to the FieldSet defintion. 

=== TelluriumDataDrivenModule ===

TelluriumDataDrivenModule is used to define modules, where users can define Ui Modules, FieldSets, and tests as shown in Figure 2.

http://tellurium-users.googlegroups.com/web/tellurium.ddt.sequence.module.jpg?gda=JfGNJFMAAACjbvY1r0rMz6MRbvC-tSqoysMSW8LOE1CninSxbdL8I2vnDwbH8gszdz4ehPdDgG9Ob8FqU5PL6F5asAt-s2HZMrYifh3RmGHD4v9PaZfDexVi73jmlo822J6Z5KZsXFo&gsc=httiOwsAAAAISLBF63vg48UkWer0gDjz

Figure 2. The Sequence Diagram of defineModule in TelluriumDataDrivenModule

=== TelluriumDataDrivenTest ===
 
TelluriumDataDrivenTest is where users actually run the data driven test. Users can define different test modules and use the "loadModule" command to include the modules in. Then, users can use "loadData" to read in data from input stream, for example, from a file. Users can also use "useData" to read in data from a String defined in the test file. After that, use the "stepToEnd" command to automatically read in data line by line and run the appropriate test specified in the data file. Finally, the test results are recorded and converted to output. The process is shown in Figure 3.
 
http://tellurium-users.googlegroups.com/web/ddt_test_sequence.jpg?gda=M_GJLEcAAACjbvY1r0rMz6MRbvC-tSqoOiEqD7Mi6G5cLzJ9CIeLB-TPT63Q-1cxaIO0tQmR15XiNflBnS90ecEO3zvz3dEqeV4duv6pDMGhhhZdjQlNAw&gsc=httiOwsAAAAISLBF63vg48UkWer0gDjz

Figure 3. The Sequence Diagram of testDataDriven in TelluriumDataDrivenTest