#summary Tellurium First Anniversary: Retrospect And Prospect.
#labels Phase-Support

= Introduction =

The Tellurium Automated Testing Framework (Tellurium) is one year old now if we count from the day that it becomes an open source project. Tellurium was originated from a small project I did for my company, i.e, use Selenium to test one application written in the Dojo Javascript Framework. That was in 2007 and Selenium became popular by that time. Selenium was a ground-breaking framework at that time since it offered of many unique features such as browser testing and creating test scripts using Selenium IDE and then replaying it. It was very attractive to a lot of people including me, which was why I took over the task in our Scrum team. 

Soon, I realized the task was not easy at all because the application was too dynamic to simply use the "record and play" mode. The first thought was to refactor the Selenium IDE generated code to make generalize it. But later, this proved to be as difficult as to re-generate a new test code. To be honest, I was not a web developer and my work mainly focused on the server side of Enterprise applications with a lot of research background in the past. I think my background helped to see problem more clearly. I was hit by the idea: "Why not define the UI objects first and make them robust to changes". 

Many Selenium users like me may also notice that Selenium code is verbose and the XPath locator is everywhere. For maintenance purpose, it is preferable to have structured test code, which led to the UI module concept. The framework was prototyped twice and the prototypes laid the foundation of today's Tellurium framework. Many concepts still remain such as the UI object, UI module, Javascript Events, and dynamically generating runtime locators.  

The prototype was called "Abstract Object-based Selenium Test Framework" (AOST) and was used by our company for internal projects. However, there were very little motivation to improve the framework for internal use since only couple teams used it. In 2008, I worked on a project using Ruby and Rails and was very impressed by its syntax, dynamic programming features, and expressiveness. Motivated by the expressiveness and easiness of the dynamic language, I re-wrote the whole framework using Groovy and made it an open source project so that it can attract more users to urge me to keep improve it. Soon, it was renamed as the Tellurium Automated Testing Framework (Tellurium) and became a team project.

= Look Back =

== Tellurium Project ==

In the past one year, Tellurium grew rapidly from a small core project into multiple sub-project including

  * Tellurium Core: UI module, APIs, DSL, Object to Runtime Locator mapping, and test support.
  * Tellurium Engine: Based on Selenium Core with UI module, jQuery selector, command bundle, and exception hierarchy support.
  * Tellurium Extensions: Dojo Javascript widgets and ExtJS Javascript widgets.
  * Tellurium UI Module Plugin (TrUMP): A firefox plugin to automatically generate UI module once users select the UI elements for test.
  * Tellurium Maven Archetypes: Include Maven archetypes to generate skeleton Tellurium JUnit and Tellurium TestNG projects using one Maven command.
  * Tellurium Reference Projects: Use Tellurium project site to illustrate how to use different Tellurium features and how to create Tellurium test cases.

Thanks to Matt Senter, Tellurium has full Maven support with our own Maven repository.

== Tellurium Team ==

Tellurium is a team work and thank all team members, past and current members, for their contributions. Thank Adrian Carr for being the first Tellurium user and proposed the "Tellurium Automated Testing Framework". Thank Quan Bui for his work on Tellurium reference projects and the proposal of the ExtJS widget project. Thank Mikhail Koryak for his expertise in jQuery and we cannot implement the jQuery selector so quickly without him. Thank Matt Senter for reconstructing the project code base and add Maven support. His work to build and release Tellurium as well as the Maven repository Maintenance should be highly appreciated. Thank Vivek Mongolu for his expertise in web development and prototyping the TrUMP Firefox plugin. His excellent work on TrUMP led to the release of TrUMP 0.1.0. Last but not the least, thank Jeff Xiong for his interest in Tellurium and his expertise in Selenium itself should be a huge asset to our team.

The past year was a difficult year for most of us with the economy downturn. Two of our team members were affected directly and the rest also experienced head cuts and other pressures from both work and life. But we still managed to improve Tellurium on a regular basis. We have released Tellurium version 0.2.0, 0.3.0, 0.4.0, 0.5.0, 0.6.0, and TrUMP 0.1.0 in the past one year, which was a huge success to our team. These would be impossible without all your hard-work.   

Of course, there are still a lot to improve. My goal to build a Strong and active team has not been achieved due to many reasons. We are expecting more exceptional members to join our team. In the meanwhile, we also welcome committers to work on one or couple tasks. Let us work together to make Tellurium a solid, real useful, and popular framework.
 
== Tellurium Community ==

Tellurium cannot reach today's stage without our users' support. More or less, our users' comments and suggestions shaped the today's Tellurium framework. 

First, I like to thank Harihara Vinayakaram for his support and contribute to Tellurium, he was the most active Tellurium user for 2008-2009 without any doubt. Thanks to Dominic Mooney for his constructive suggestions and many bug reports. As the most valuable Tellurium for 2008-2009, we look forward to his continuous contribution to Tellurium in 2009-2010. 

Special thanks to Kevin Zhang for providing us the chance to be interviewed by InfoQ China. Thanks to Al Snow for being the first person to introduce Tellurium in a conference. Thanks to Tarun for advocating TestNG to Tellurium. Thanks to poweroftesting, smartqa, Nicolae Vintila, Jason, Ravi Chaddha, laimu, DogTailFish, Raghu Savalagi, konstantin, boraldomaster, Filip Korling, Praveen, Iustina Vintila, Mariangela, Thomas Roßberg, Theyagarajan, rajagopalcs, AbsolutZero, Ernst, dazz_x, rohanh, Manoj Chavan, and many other usrs for bug reporting and being involved in technical discussions in Tellurium user group.

Thanks to many people who are interested in Tellurium, use Tellurium, and promote Tellurium.   

= Future Directions =


= Acknowledgments =