#summary How to Contribute
#labels Phase-Support

== How to Contribute to Tellurium ==

Tellurium is like a newborn and he needs your support and contribution. We welcome contributions in many different ways, for example,

  # Try out Tellurium
  # Use Tellurium in your project and report bugs
  # Ask questions and answer other users' questions
  # Promote Tellurium and post your experience on Tellurium
  # Fix bugs for Tellurium
  # Bring in new ideas and suggestions

For very active users in Tellurium user group, we will consider you as Tellurium contributors. We will provide you the open source license for the IntelliJ IDEA. A Tellurium contributor can be nominated by one of Tellurium team members as a new Tellurium team member. Tellurium team members will vote if we accept the contributor as a member. If most existing members agree, then the contributor will become a project member and contribute more to Tellurium.

Our project team is open for new members and is expecting new members. We will recruit new members from Tellurium contributors. But if you think you are exceptional and want to contribute to Tellurium code immediately, please contact Jian Fang or other existing Tellurium members.

We need some new developers who are JavaScript and jQuery experts to join our development team. If you have free time and want to contribute to Tellurium, please contact Jian Fang or other existing Tellurium members.
 
We need a technical writer to join our support team to help us with documents and may also help us to polish articles later. The person should be excellent in technical writing in English, have free time and be willing to contribute to Tellurium, and be active. 

We also expect to have some Evangelism Team members, who could write blogs and articles about Tellurium, or present Tellurium to people, i.e., promote Tellurium in various ways. We welcome Evangelism Team members from different parts of the world and promote Tellurium in different Languages.  A person could become an evangelism team member only after this person has already done enough work to promote Tellurium and want to join our team. If you are interested in, please let us know whenever you create a blog about Tellurium, or promote Tellurium in other ways. We will keep a record of your contributions
and once the contributions reach a certain level, we will accept you as an Evangelism Team member.  