#summary Tellurium as A jQuery UI Widget Testing Framework.
#labels Phase-Implementation,Phase-Support

<wiki:toc max_depth="5" />

= Introduction =

Tellurium provides you the capability to composite UI objects into a [widget object and then you can use the widget directly just like using a regular tellurium UI object. The advantage is that you do not need to deal with the individual UI at the link or button level of the widget, you just work on the high level methods. Another advantage is that this widget is reusable.

Widgets in JavaScript frameworks are good examples of reusable UIs that we can exploit the benefits of Tellurium Widgets. We take jQuery UI widgets, more specifically, the [http://jqueryui.com/demos/datepicker/ Date Picker widget] as an example of how to define the corresponding Tellurium widget and how to use in directly in your test code.

= Prerequisites =
 
  * [http://maven.kungfuters.org/content/repositories/snapshots Tellurium 0.8.0-SNAPSHOT]
  * [http://docs.jquery.com/UI/Datepicker jQuery UI 1.8]

= Implementation =

== Create a Tellurium jQuery UI Widget Project ==

We use [http://code.google.com/p/aost/wiki/UserGuide070TelluriumSubprojects#Tellurium_Maven_Archetypes Tellurium Widget Archetype] to create the following project.

{{{
mvn archetype:create -DgroupId=org.telluriumsource -DartifactId=jqueryui-widgets -DarchetypeArtifactId=tellurium-widget-archetype -DarchetypeGroupId=org.telluriumsource -DarchetypeVersion=0.8.0-SNAPSHOT -DarchetypeRepository=http://maven.kungfuters.org/content/repositories/snapshots
}}}

After generate the appropriate files, the code structure looks as follows.

{{{
|-- LICENSE.txt
|-- README
|-- TelluriumConfig.groovy
|-- WebContent
|-- pom.xml
`-- src
    |-- main
    |   |-- groovy
    |   |   `-- org
    |   |       `-- telluriumsource
    |   |           `-- ui
    |   |               `-- widget
    |   |                   `-- jqueryui
    |   |                       |-- Init.groovy
    |   |                       |-- JQueryUiWidget.groovy
    |   |                       |-- builder
    |   |                       |   `-- DatePickerBuilder.groovy
    |   |                       `-- object
    |   |                           `-- DatePicker.groovy
    |   `-- resources
    `-- test
        |-- groovy
        |   `-- org
        |       `-- telluriumsource
        |           |-- module
        |           |   `-- DatePickerDefaultModule.groovy
        |           |-- support
        |           |   `-- JettyFileServer.java
        |           `-- test
        |               `-- DatePickerTestCase.java
        `-- resources
}}}