#summary One-sentence summary of this page.

= Introduction =

Tellurium @ CodeStock conference


= Details =
I presented [http://code.google.com/p/aost/ Telluriurm] Automated Testing Framework @ CodeStock conference, here in Knoxville TN. This was my first conference presentation. Obviously I was a little nervous. Conference was more oriented towards .NET, so I was also worried if anybody would attend my session given that Tellurium is written in Groovy/Java. This year the total strength for the conference was about 370 and it was two day event. Its pretty good conference and its really cheap, only $25. I dont know how Micheal Neel manages to arrange great conference for so cheap, with great technical sessions, lunch and refreshements for 2 days.  As a speaker, the conference fee $25 was waived. I didnt really count the number of attendees for my session but I think the attendance was between 6-10.


Session alloted was 70 mins, enough to cover the important concepts with demos for Telllurium. I had some technical problems with the projector, so I lost 10-15mins. I had to extend 10 minutes to make up for the lost time. When we started working on Tellurium, our major focus was to eliminate the fragiliness in Selenium and that was the complain from couple of attendees using Selenium. I started with Selenium and the problems with using Selenium and then introduced Tellurium, its main concepts, how to write tests in Tellurium with couple of demos, then introduced Trump firefox plugin to generate UI model to test.

You can download the slides and code from here

Next time I'll take 2 session and cover the basics in one session and advanced topics like Data driven testing, Grid support, caching..etc in another session. Overall it was great feeling to finally present something we have been working for over an year at conference.
