#summary Tellurium 2nd Anniversary and Future.
#labels Phase-Implementation,Phase-Support
<wiki:toc max_depth="5" />

= Overview =

By June 25, Tellurium will be 2 year old. In the past year, Tellurium team worked very hard to get Tellurium 0.7.0 out of the door. The Tellurium 0.7.0 release is a milestone release with many new features which pave a new direction for Tellurium to go in the future. The new features include [http://code.google.com/p/aost/wiki/SantaUiModuleGroupLocatingAlgorithm the Santa Group Locating Algorithm], [http://code.google.com/p/aost/wiki/Tellurium070Update#Macro_Command Macro Command], [http://code.google.com/p/aost/wiki/Tellurium070Update#UI_Module_Caching UI Module Caching], [http://code.google.com/p/aost/wiki/InternationalizationSupportTellurium I18n support], and [http://code.google.com/p/aost/wiki/TelluriumUIDDescriptionLanguage the Tellurium UID Description Language] (UDL), which is used to address the dynamic factors in Tellurium UI templates and increase the flexibility of Tellurium UI templates. 

Tellurium community is getting bigger and Tellurium users' comments and suggestions have shaped the Tellurium framework in many different ways and various aspects. The following users got recognized for 2009 - 2010.

  * Most Active User: Jonathan Share 
  * Most Valuable User: Dominic Mooney 

Tellurium continues evolving and paving its own way to future. Some interesting areas we will be working on include:

    * Tellurium 0.7.0 has implemented a new test driving engine using jQuery. We will continue developing the new Engine to its maturity.
    * Tellurium UI module plugin (Trump) is the key to the success of Tellurium.  Trump 0.1.0 was built for Tellurium 0.5.0 and we are working towards a major update on Trump to make it match Tellurium 0.7.0 and to generate test scripts as well as UI modules so that Tellurium is not only good for developers, but that it works for QA testers as well. 
    * Tellurium as a cloud testing tool. We will exploit peer-to-peer techniques to make the test servers capable of self-organizing and self-coordinating in the cloud environment with the least management effort.  
    * Tellurium Widgets, creation of reusable Dojo, ExtJS, and jQuery UI widgets. This allows other people to reuse the widgets simply by including the jar files to their projects.
    * Behavior Driven Testing support.
    * Testing flow support. 
    * Tellurium as a web security testing tool. 

= What Tellurium Members Said About Tellurium =

Tellurium cannot stand in the current place without the contributions from all Tellurium past and current members. Let us see what they said about Tellurium.

*Jian Fang*, Tellurium creator and project Lead:

"_Tellurium was my brain child and I didn't expect it to grow to the current stage when I first released it in June 25, 2008. I really thank all Tellurium team members for their contributions and Tellurium users for their support. Look forward to a stronger Tellurium team and much bigger Tellurium community in the next year._"

*Vivek Mongolu*, Tellurium project committer:

"_We were first introduced to Selenium in Sep 2007. At that time there was no good testing framework that could test the Ajax/Web 2.0 application. We were completely blown away at the Selenium presentation in Rich Web Experience 2007. We started using Selenium to write some tests and quickly realized that it too had some problems and thats how Tellurium evovled. For the past 2 years its been amazing. With the 0.7.0 release we have given the community some awesome features and will continue to do so. I'd like to thank the Tellurium users and the Tellurium team for their contributions and also would like to congratulate the Tellurium team on completing 2 years and I am sure each member of the team is proud of this achievement._"

*Ajay Ravichandran*, Tellurium project committer:

"_My main interest in Tellurium started off with wanting to contribute to a dynamic open source project. Tellurium has been that and much more. For the last 2 years our team has introduced lots of cool features into tellurium. I think the best part of working for this team has been the opportunities, ideas and knowledge sharing that has taken place. I believe we have a even more dynamic and bright future ahead of us, especially with lots of awesome features coming up, from IDE based plugins, all the way to cloud based testing._"

*Haroon Rasheed*, Tellurium project committer:

"_I started working on Tellurium about 2 years ago. Tellurium started as an automated test framework rather than a test automation tool, but soon we realized that Tellurium can be more than a test automation framework. The features that Tellurium provides are amazing. People can start writing new tests in no time. New feature list for Tellurium is growing and we can see exciting times ahead.

The level of documentation available to the users is awesome. I have visited many open source projects on the internet, and I am proud to say that the quality of the Tellurium documentation is amazing. _"



= Resources =

  * [http://code.google.com/p/aost/ Tellurium Project Home]
  * [http://groups.google.com/group/tellurium-users Tellurium User Group]
  * [http://groups.google.com/group/tellurium-developers Tellurium Developer Group]
  * [http://twitter.com/TelluriumSource Tellurium on Twitter]
  * [http://code.google.com/p/aost/wiki/Tellurium070Released Tellurium 0.7.0]
 