#summary Tellurium 0.7.0 RC2 Is Released.
#labels Phase-Implementation,Phase-Support

= Introduction =

Two months after the release of [http://docs.codehaus.org/display/GROOVY/2010/02/10/Tellurium+0.7.0+RC1+is+Available+Now Tellurium 0.7.0 RC1], we are happy to announce the release of Tellurium 0.7.0 RC2.

= Features =

In addition to the features already in 0.7.0 RC1 such as [http://code.google.com/p/aost/wiki/SantaUiModuleGroupLocatingAlgorithm the Santa Group Locating Algorithm], [http://code.google.com/p/aost/wiki/Tellurium070Update#Macro_Command Macro Command], [http://code.google.com/p/aost/wiki/Tellurium070Update#UI_Module_Caching UI Module Caching], and [http://code.google.com/p/aost/wiki/InternationalizationSupportTellurium I18n support], 0.7.0 RC2 added [http://code.google.com/p/aost/wiki/TelluriumUIDDescriptionLanguage the Tellurium UID Description Language] (UDL) to address the dynamic factors in Tellurium UI templates and increase the flexibility of Tellurium UI templates. 

There are over 50 issues and tasks are closed for 0.7.0 RC2 with many bug fixes and feature enhancements. For more detailed feature list, please read [http://code.google.com/p/aost/wiki/Tellurium070Update What's New in Tellurium 0.7.0].

= How to Obtain Tellurium 0.7.0 RC2 =

Tellurium 0.7.0 RC2 tar ball can be downloaded from [http://aost.googlecode.com/files/tellurium-0.7.0-RC2.tar.gz here]. You can also find Tellurium core and custom selenium server from the following Maven repositories, respectively.

http://maven.kungfuters.org/content/repositories/releases/org/telluriumsource/tellurium-core/0.7.0-RC2/

http://maven.kungfuters.org/content/repositories/thirdparty/org/seleniumhq/selenium/server/selenium-server/1.0.1-te3-RC2/

If you Tellurium Maven archetypes, you can use the following command to create a Tellurium JUnit test project.

{{{
mvn archetype:create -DgroupId=your_group_id -DartifactId=your_artifact_id \
-DarchetypeArtifactId=tellurium-junit-archetype \
-DarchetypeGroupId=org.telluriumsource -DarchetypeVersion=0.7.0-RC2 \
-DarchetypeRepository=http://maven.kungfuters.org/content/repositories/releases
}}}

Similarly, use the following Maven command for a Tellurium TestNG project,

{{{
mvn archetype:create -DgroupId=your_group_id -DartifactId=your_artifact_id \
-DarchetypeArtifactId=tellurium-testng-archetype \
-DarchetypeGroupId=org.telluriumsource -DarchetypeVersion=0.7.0-RC2 \
-DarchetypeRepository=http://maven.kungfuters.org/content/repositories/releases
}}}

= Release File Directory Structure =

This directory includes Tellurium 0.7.0 RC2 Release source code, dependencies, and documents.

{{{
├── artifacts
│   ├── selenium-server-1.0.1-te3-RC2.jar
│   ├── tellurium-core-0.7.0-RC2.jar
│   └── tellurium-udl-0.7.0-RC2.jar
├── dependencies
│   ├── bin
│   │   ├── rundsl.bat
│   │   ├── rundsl.groovy
│   │   └── rundsl.sh
│   ├── config
│   │   └── TelluriumConfig.groovy
│   └── lib
│       ├── antlr-2.7.7.jar
│       ├── antlr-3.1.3.jar
│       ├── antlr-runtime-3.1.3.jar
│       ├── groovy-all-1.7.0.jar
│       ├── json_simple-r1.jar
│       ├── junit-4.7.jar
│       ├── poi-3.0.1-FINAL.jar
│       ├── selenium-java-client-driver-1.0.1.jar
│       ├── stringtree-json-2.0.10.jar
│       └── testng-5.8-jdk15.jar
├── doc
│   ├── tellurium0.7.0update.pdf
│   └── TelluriumUserGuide.0.6.0.pdf
└── sources
    ├── core
    ├── engine
    ├── extensions
    │   ├── dojo-widget
    │   ├── extjs-widget
    ├── reference-projects
    │   ├── benchmarks
    │   ├── tellurium-website
    │   └── ui-examples
    ├── tellurium-assembly
    ├── tools
    │   ├── firefox-plugin
    │   ├── tellurium-junit-archetype
    │   ├── tellurium-testng-archetype
    │   └── tellurium-widget-archetype
    └── udl
}}}


The Core is the Tellurium Core project. Engine is Tellurium Engine project. The reference projects include tellurium-website and ui-examples sub-projects. The dependencies include all jars you need to run Tellurium tests. The doc folder holds Tellurium 0.7.0 update and 0.6.0 user guide.

= Feedback =

After 0.7.0 RC2, there will be no major feature update in 0.7.0. Thus, it is a good time for you to try out 0.7.0 RC2 release. Please report any problems back to Tellurium User Group at

http://groups.google.com/group/tellurium-users

and follow [http://twitter.com/TelluriumSource Tellurium on Twitter] for any the latest update.

Thanks,

Tellurium Team 