#summary Ten Things You Should Know About Tellurium.
#labels Phase-Support
<wiki:toc max_depth="3" />

== How Long Has Tellurium Been There ==

Tellurium is one year old in June 2009 if we count the date from the day it became an open source project. But actually, Tellurium had been through two phases of prototyping before that. The first prototype was created in 2007 to test our company Dojo web applications, which is basic a Java framework based on Spring XML wiring and no UI modules, you have to use factories to create all UI objects. As a result, it was not convenient to use. The second prototype was there in early 2008 to improve the usability of the first prototype. The UI module was introduced in the second prototype. Both prototypes had been used for couple internal projects before it was re-written in Groovy and became an open source project in June 2008. You may notice that prototype framework is called AOST and it was officially renamed to the Tellurium Automated Testing framework (Tellurium) in July 2008 when it moved out of the prototyping phase and became a team project.

== What are the main differences between Tellurium and Selenium ==

Tellurium was created when I was a Selenium user and tried to address some of the shortcomings of the Selenium framework such as verbose and fragile to changes. Selenium is a great web testing framework and up to 0.6.0, Tellurium still uses Selenium core as the test driving engine. From Tellurium 0.7.0, we will gradually replace the Selenium core with our own Engine. 

Although Tellurium was born from Selenium, there are some fundamental differences between Tellurium and Selenium, which mainly come from the fact that Tellurium is a UI module based testing framework, i.e., Tellurium focuses more on a set of UI elements instead of individual ones. The UI module represents a composite UI object in the format of nested basic UI elements. For example, the download search module in Tellurium project site is defined as follows,

{{{
ui.Form(uid: "downloadSearch", clocator: [action: "list", method: "get"], group: "true") {
   Selector(uid: "downloadType", clocator: [name: "can", id: "can"])
   TextBox(uid: "searchLabel", clocator: [tag: "span"])
   InputBox(uid: "searchBox", clocator: [name: "q"])
   SubmitButton(uid: "searchButton", clocator: [value: "Search"])
}
}}}

With the UI module, Tellurium is robust, expressive, flexible, and reusable. Want to know reasons why? Please see "Tellurium: A New Approach for Web Testing",

http://code.google.com/p/aost/wiki/Tellurium_A_New_Approach_for_Web_Test

== Do I need to know Groovy before I use Tellurium ==

Tellurium Core is implemented in Groovy and Java to achieve expressiveness. But that does not mean you have to be familiar with Groovy before you start to use Tellurium. Tellurium creates DSL expressions for UI module and actions, you need to use Groovy class to implement the UI module by extending the DslContext Groovy class, other than that, you can write your test cases in Java, Groovy, or Dsl scripts. 

The only thing you should be aware is that you need Groovy plug-ins for your IDE. Currently, Eclipse, Netbeans, and IntelliJ have Groovy plug-ins. Please check the following wiki pages for how to set up Groovy and use Tellurium in different IDEs,

http://code.google.com/p/aost/wiki/TelluriumReferenceProjectEclipseSetup

http://code.google.com/p/aost/wiki/TelluriumReferenceProjectNetBeansSetup

http://code.google.com/p/aost/wiki/TelluriumReferenceProjectIntelliJSetup

== What Unit Test and Functional Test Frameworks Tellurium Support ==

Tellurium supports both JUnit and TestNG frameworks. You should extend  TelluriumJavaTestCase for JUnit and TelluriumTestNGTestCase for TestNG. For more details, please check the following wiki pages,

http://code.google.com/p/aost/wiki/BasicExample

http://code.google.com/p/aost/wiki/Introduction

== Does Tellurium Provide Some Tool to Automatically Generate UI Modules ==

Tellurium UI Model Plugin (TrUMP) is a Firefox Plugin for you to automatically generate UI module simply by clicking on the web page under testing. You can download it from Tellurium download page at

http://code.google.com/p/aost/downloads/list

or from Firefox Addons site at

https://addons.mozilla.org/en-US/firefox/addon/11035

The detailed user guide for TrUMP is at

http://code.google.com/p/aost/wiki/TrUMP

If you want to understand more about how TrUMP works, please check "How TrUMP works?" at

http://code.google.com/p/aost/wiki/HowTrUMPWorks

== What Build System Tellurium uses ==

Tellurium supports both Ant and Maven build. The ant build scripts are provided in Tellurium core and Tellurium reference projects. For Maven, please check out the
Tellurium Maven guide,

http://code.google.com/p/aost/wiki/MavenHowTo

== What is the Best Way to Create a Tellurium Project ==

You can use Tellurium reference projects as a template project, please see the reference project guide at

http://code.google.com/p/aost/wiki/ReferenceProjectGuide

But the best and easiest way to create a Tellurium project is to use Tellurium Maven archetypes. Tellurium provides two Maven archetype, i.e., tellurium-junit-archetype and tellurium-testng-archetype for Tellurium JUnit test project and Tellurium TestNG test project, respectively. Please see Tellurium Maven archetypes for more details,

http://code.google.com/p/aost/wiki/TelluriumMavenArchetypes


== Where can I find API documents for Tellurium ==

The Tellurium DSLs, other APIs, and default UI objects could be found in Tellurium user guide at

http://code.google.com/p/aost/wiki/UserGuide

== Is There Any Tellurium Tutorial Available ==

Tellurium provides very detailed tutorials including basic examples, advanced examples, data driven testing examples, Dsl script examples. Apart from that, We also provide Tellurium Tutorial Series on wiki page or to our user group. Please use Tellurium tutorial wiki page as your starting point,

http://code.google.com/p/aost/wiki/Tutorial

We also provide a quick start "Ten Minutes To Tellurium" at

http://code.google.com/p/aost/wiki/TenMinutesToTellurium

== Tellurium Future Directions ==

Tellurium 0.6.0 added jQuery Selector support and a cache mechanism to increase the reuse of UI elements. From the next release, we will work on our own Engine project to better support UI modules for robust and speed performance. In the meanwhile, We will improve our TrUMP plugin to automatically generate testing DSL scripts so that Tellurium is also good for non-developers. 