#labels Phase-Design,Phase-Implementation
= Tellurium UI Model Plugin (TrUMP) =

== Install TrUMP IDE ==

Go to the Tellurium project download page and download the TrUMP xpi file as shown in the Figure,

http://tellurium-users.googlegroups.com/web/trump010a.png?gda=AF7L6j8AAACXZPxEX7Ki-M5C2JpeBoXXpbNhTBGwKHnla96SFPZ5YkEgmkyL90XZhy9bPH53G1WccyFKn-rNKC-d1pM_IdV0&gsc=z7xdXxYAAACUfwRI-f7WsvI5RgWLBanlg-kXU5InE09W2o0GCSVgCQ

Then, open the xpi file with Firefox,

http://tellurium-users.googlegroups.com/web/trump010b.png?gda=sK2vfz8AAACXZPxEX7Ki-M5C2JpeBoXXpbNhTBGwKHnla96SFPZ5YrYvoqxkO5DC4aYRH_5SRSSccyFKn-rNKC-d1pM_IdV0&gsc=z7xdXxYAAACUfwRI-f7WsvI5RgWLBanlg-kXU5InE09W2o0GCSVgCQ

You will see the following Firefox plugin installation page, click "Install Now",

http://tellurium-users.googlegroups.com/web/trump010c.png?gda=IhoYoT8AAACXZPxEX7Ki-M5C2JpeBoXXpbNhTBGwKHnla96SFPZ5YjR9gBHXghM37Bu9znXlN4qccyFKn-rNKC-d1pM_IdV0&gsc=z7xdXxYAAACUfwRI-f7WsvI5RgWLBanlg-kXU5InE09W2o0GCSVgCQ

After that, restart Firefox to make the TrUMP plugin take effect.

http://tellurium-users.googlegroups.com/web/trump010d.png?gda=7q0j_D8AAACXZPxEX7Ki-M5C2JpeBoXXpbNhTBGwKHnla96SFPZ5Yvd84QH-oNAEOpLRWK6SmWSccyFKn-rNKC-d1pM_IdV0&gsc=z7xdXxYAAACUfwRI-f7WsvI5RgWLBanlg-kXU5InE09W2o0GCSVgCQ

== Setup TrUMP From Project Source==

Sometime, you may want to work on TrUMP source. To do this, check out the trump folder in tools/firefox-plugin/trump.

Lets say you have checked it into C:\Project\firefox-plugin\trump

First you’ll need to copy the file trump@aost.net inside the extensions-file folder to your firefox profile. 

Profiles for firefox are located in 
C:\Documents and Settings\$user\Application Data\Mozilla\Firefox\Profiles\
For Windows OS

For linux,  the firefox user profile lives in

~/.mozilla/firefox/ 

Lets say you want to copy it to user1 profile

Open the user1 profile. Copy the trump@aost.net file to the extensions folder

C:\Documents and Settings\$user\Application Data\Mozilla\Firefox\Profiles\user1\extensions

Edit the trump@aost.net file by opening it in a text editor. This file will contain the path to our trump plugin folder, which is C:\Project\firefox-plugin\trump\src. Don’t forget the \ after the src. Save and close the file.

We are done setting up the plugin.

After that, open the firefox with the profile “user1”. You are ready to use TrUMP IDE

== Use TrUMP ==

In Firefox, select "Tools" > "TrUMP IDE"

http://tellurium-users.googlegroups.com/web/trump010e.png?gsc=jTelIRYAAAC0nhYDa9gni8Uq6-kI4oX7g-kXU5InE09W2o0GCSVgCQ

You will see the TrUMP IDE as follows,

http://tellurium-users.googlegroups.com/web/trump010f.png?gda=IF9OXz8AAACXZPxEX7Ki-M5C2JpeBoXXGvl4Gd4uFZh4sOybBRtMejKXHS9twXs2d3PI5PCtpFCccyFKn-rNKC-d1pM_IdV0&gsc=jTelIRYAAAC0nhYDa9gni8Uq6-kI4oX7g-kXU5InE09W2o0GCSVgCQ

The "Record" button is on by default, you can click on "Stop" to stop recording. Now, you can start to use the TrUMP IDE to record whatever UI elements you click on the WEB. For example, you can open Google search page and click on the search elements and the tree links,

http://tellurium-users.googlegroups.com/web/trump010g.png?gda=0hMSFz8AAACXZPxEX7Ki-M5C2JpeBoXXGvl4Gd4uFZh4sOybBRtMevEOLvEQPr9lnZXEWcnY2r-ccyFKn-rNKC-d1pM_IdV0&gsc=jTelIRYAAAC0nhYDa9gni8Uq6-kI4oX7g-kXU5InE09W2o0GCSVgCQ

The blue color indicates selected element, you can click on the selected element again to un-select it.

Then, you can click on the "Generate" button to create the Tellurium UI Module,

http://tellurium-users.googlegroups.com/web/trump010h.png?gda=WwV8UT8AAACXZPxEX7Ki-M5C2JpeBoXXGvl4Gd4uFZh4sOybBRtMekGLp6dQXNkqlGzJQvNUMXKccyFKn-rNKC-d1pM_IdV0&gsc=jTelIRYAAAC0nhYDa9gni8Uq6-kI4oX7g-kXU5InE09W2o0GCSVgCQ

You will see the generated UI module in a popup window,

http://tellurium-users.googlegroups.com/web/trump010i.png?gda=acHXHD8AAACXZPxEX7Ki-M5C2JpeBoXXGvl4Gd4uFZh4sOybBRtMeuhL8QrIH1Eq53eR_Um4ZeyccyFKn-rNKC-d1pM_IdV0&gsc=jTelIRYAAAC0nhYDa9gni8Uq6-kI4oX7g-kXU5InE09W2o0GCSVgCQ

Click on "OK". You can review the UI module in the "Source" tab as follows,

http://tellurium-users.googlegroups.com/web/trump010j.png?gda=2dcZ8D8AAACXZPxEX7Ki-M5C2JpeBoXXGvl4Gd4uFZh4sOybBRtMevpsZrGZKFo9kWSEMUPqT5WccyFKn-rNKC-d1pM_IdV0&gsc=jTelIRYAAAC0nhYDa9gni8Uq6-kI4oX7g-kXU5InE09W2o0GCSVgCQ

Right now, the format does not look good. If we reformat the UI module, we will see the actual UI module as follows,

{{{
Container(UID: 'root', clocator: [:]){
  Container(UID: 'T4t', clocator: [:]){
    InputBox(UID: 'input0', clocator: [onkeydown:"okd()",value:"",title:"Google Search",name:"q",autocomplete:"off",tag:"input"])
    SubmitButton(UID: 'input1', clocator: [type:"submit",value:"Google Search",name:"btnG",tag:"input"])
    SubmitButton(UID: 'input2', clocator: [type:"submit",value:"I'm Feeling Lucky",name:"btnI",tag:"input"])
  }
  Container(UID: 'T4tf', clocator: [:]){
    UrlLink(UID: 'a3', clocator: [tag:"a"])
    UrlLink(UID: 'a4', clocator: [tag:"a"])
    UrlLink(UID: 'a5', clocator: [tag:"a"])
  }
}
}}}