#summary Tellurium User Guide: Introduction
#labels Featured

(A PDF version of the user guide is available [http://aost.googlecode.com/files/tellurium-reference-0.7.0.pdf here])

<wiki:toc max_depth="5" />


= What is Tellurium =

[http://code.google.com/p/aost/ The Tellurium Automated Testing Framework] (Tellurium) is an automated testing framework for web applications. Tellurium grew up from [http://seleniumhq.org/ the Selenium framework], but with a different testing concept. Starting from Tellurium 0.7.0, Tellurium added Tellurium Engine to replace the Selenium Core to better support Tellurium. 

== Why Tellurium is Novel ==

For most existing web testing frameworks like Selenium, they mainly focus on individual UI elements as follows.

http://tellurium-users.googlegroups.com/web/tellurium3.png?gda=aZZ_w0AAAAA7fMi2EBxrNTLhqoq3FzPrzblq5HA-QkbWcQ1F-Scqtki5CODg-kyjcKh65ubVQ_xtxVPdW1gYotyj7-X7wDON&gsc=jkTIIgsAAACI9y1tsPXdLT5_3omT2FAm

For example:

{{{
   selenium.click("//div[3]/input[@value='Create']");
}}}

For Tellurium, we treated the whole UI elements as a widget and we call it a UI module.

http://tellurium-users.googlegroups.com/web/tellurium4.png?gda=Fw6DGUAAAAA7fMi2EBxrNTLhqoq3FzPrzblq5HA-QkbWcQ1F-Scqtjl0DZWo_xwjp4raCAkSDqVtxVPdW1gYotyj7-X7wDON&gsc=jkTIIgsAAACI9y1tsPXdLT5_3omT2FAm

We define the UI module as follows.

{{{
    ui.Form(uid: "Form", clocator: [tag: "form"]){
        Div(uid: "User", clocator: [:]){
            Selector(uid: "Sex", clocator: [:])
            InputBox(uid: "Input", clocator: [tag: "input", type: "text", name: "j_username"])
        }
        Container(uid: "Finish", clocator: [tag: "tr"]){
            SubmitButton(uid: "Submit", clocator: [tag: "input", type: "submit", value: "Login", name: "submit"])
        }
    }
}}}

== Advantages ==

If we think Selenium as the "C" language, Tellurium is like the "C++" language, which uses a different testing concept. There are couple advantages to describe the UI elements as a UI module.

=== Expressive ===

_Expressive_ is obvious. For example, you can see clearly what the UI you are testing against. For the test code, you have DSL style test code such as:


{{{
   type "Form.User.Input", "John Fang"
}}}

=== Robust to Changes ===

Test robust is always a big issue for Selenium. To solve this problem is one of the main motivations that Tellurium was created for. Tellurium uses UI attributes to describe UI instead of fixed locators. If we change the attributes, new runtime locators will be generated by the framework so that Tellurium can self-adapt to UI changes to some degree. [http://code.google.com/p/aost/wiki/SantaUiModuleGroupLocatingAlgorithm The Santa algorithm] in Tellurium new engine further improves the test robust by using UI partial matching.

=== Represent Dynamic Web Content Easily ===

The [http://code.google.com/p/aost/wiki/UserGuide070TelluriumBasics#UI_Templates Tellurium UI templates] are used to represent dynamic web content very easily. For example, [http://code.google.com/p/aost/issues/list Tellurium issue search result widget] can be easily represented as follows.

{{{
    ui.Table(uid: "issueResult", clocator: [id: "resultstable", class: "results"], group: "true") {
      //Define the header elements
      UrlLink(uid: "{header: any} as ID", clocator: [text: "*ID"])
      UrlLink(uid: "{header: any} as Type", clocator: [text: "*Type"])
      UrlLink(uid: "{header: any} as Status", clocator: [text: "*Status"])
      UrlLink(uid: "{header: any} as Priority", clocator: [text: "*Priority"])
      UrlLink(uid: "{header: any} as Milestone", clocator: [text: "*Milestone"])
      UrlLink(uid: "{header: any} as Owner", clocator: [text: "*Owner"])
      UrlLink(uid: "{header: any} as Summary", clocator: [text: "*Summary + Labels"])
      UrlLink(uid: "{header: any} as Extra", clocator: [text: "*..."])

      //Define table body elements
      //Column "Extra" are TextBoxs
      TextBox(uid: "{row: all, column -> Extra}", clocator: [:])
      //For the rest, they are UrlLinks
      UrlLink(uid: "{row: all, column: all}", clocator: [:])
    }
}}}

=== Easy to Maintain ===

Tellurium emphasizes the decoupling of UI from test code. The structured test code makes Tellurium easier to maintain and refactor.

= Motivation =

Automated web testing has always been one of the hottest and most important topics in the software testing arena when it comes to the rising popularity of Rich Internet applications (RIA) and Ajax-based web applications. With the advent of new web techniques such as RIA and Ajax, automated web testing tools must keep current with changes in technology and be able to address the following challenges: 

  * *JavaScript Events*: JavaScript is everywhere on the web today. Many web applications are JavaScript heavy. To test JavaScript, the automated testing framework should be able to trigger JavaScript events in a convenient way.
  * *Ajax for Dynamic Web Content*: Web applications have many benefits over desktop applications. For example, these applications have no installation and updates are instantaneous and easier to support. Ajax is a convenient way to update a part of the web page without refreshing the whole page. AJAX makes web applications richer and more user-friendly. The web context for an Ajax application is usually dynamic. For example, in a data grid, the data and number of rows keeps changing at runtime.
  * *Robust/Responsive to Changes*: A good automated web-testing tool should be able to address the changes in the web context to some degree so that users do not need to keep updating the test code.
  * *Easy to Maintain*: In an agile testing world, software development is based on iterations, and new features are added on in each sprint. The functional tests or user acceptance tests must be refactored and updated for the new features. The testing framework should provide the flexibility for users to maintain the test code easily.
  * *Re-usability*: Many web applications use the same UI module for different parts of the application. The adoption of JavaScript frameworks such as Dojo and ExtJS increases the chance of using the same UI module for different web applications. A good testing framework should also be able to provide the re-usability of test modules.
  * *Expressiveness*: The testing framework provides users without much coding experience the ability to easily write test code or scripts in a familiar way, such as using a domain specific language (DSL).

The Tellurium Automated Testing Framework (Tellurium) is designed around these considerations and has defined as its focus the following goals:

  * Robust/responsive to changes; allow changes to be localized
  * Addresses dynamic web contexts such as JavaScript events and Ajax
  * Easy to refactor and maintain
  * Modular; test modules are reusable
  * Expressive and easy to use

= Tellurium, the New Approach for Web Testing =

The Tellurium Automated Testing Framework (Tellurium) is an open source automated testing framework for web applications that addresses the challenges and problems of today’s web testing.

Most existing web testing tools/frameworks focus on individual UI elements such as links and buttons. Tellurium takes a new approach for automated web testing by using the concept of the UI module. 

The _UI module_ is a collection of UI elements grouped together. Usually, the UI module represents a composite UI object in the format of nested basic UI elements. For example, the Google search UI module can be expressed as follows:
{{{
ui.Container(uid: "GoogleSearchModule", clocator: [tag: "td"], group: "true"){
  InputBox(uid: "Input", clocator: [title: "Google Search"])
  SubmitButton(uid: "Search", clocator: [name: "btnG", value: "Google Search"])
  SubmitButton(uid: "ImFeelingLucky", clocator: [value: "I'm Feeling Lucky"])
}
}}}

Tellurium is built on the foundation of the UI module. The UI module makes it possible to build locators for UI elements at runtime. First, this makes Tellurium robust and responsive to changes from internal UI elements. Second, the UI module makes Tellurium expressive. UI elements can be referred to simply by appending the names (uid) along the path to the specific element. This also enables _Tellurium's Group Locating_ feature, making composite objects reusable, and addressing dynamic web pages.

Tellurium is implemented in Groovy and Java. The test cases can be written in Java, Groovy, or pure Domain Specific Language (DSL) scripts. Tellurium evolved out of Selenium. However, the UI testing approach is completely different. Tellurium is not a "record and replay" style framework, and it enforces the separation of UI modules from test code, making refactoring easy. 

For example, once the Google Search UI module is defined as previously shown, the test code is written as follows:

{{{
type "GoogleSearchModule.Input", "Tellurium test"
click "GoogleSearchModule.Search"
}}}

Tellurium sets the Object to Locator Mapping (OLM) automatically at runtime so that UI objects can be defined simply by their attributes using Composite Locators. Tellurium uses the Group Locating Concept (GLC) to exploit information inside a collection of UI components so that locators can find their elements. 

Tellurium also defines a set of DSLs for web testing. Furthermore, Tellurium uses UI templates to define sets of dynamic UI elements at runtime. As a result, Tellurium is robust, expressive, flexible, reusable, and easy to maintain. 

The main features of Tellurium include:

  * Abstract UI objects to encapsulate web UI elements
  * UI module for structured test code and re-usability
  * DSL for UI definition, actions, and testing
  * Composite Locator to use a set of attributes to describe a UI element
  * Group locating to exploit information inside a collection of UI components
  * Dynamically generate runtime locators to localize changes
  * UI templates for dynamic web content
  * XPath support
  * jQuery selector support to improve test speed in IE
  * Locator caching to improve speed
  * Javascript event support
  * Use Tellurium Firefox plugin, Trump, to automatically generate UI modules
  * Dojo and ExtJS widget extensions
  * Data driven test support
  * Selenium Grid support
  * JUnit and TestNG support
  * Ant and Maven support

= How Challenges and Problems Are Addressed in Tellurium =

First, Tellurium does not use "record and replay". Instead, it uses the Tellurium Firefox plugin TrUMP to generate the UI module (not test code) for you. Then test code based on the UI module is created. 

In this way, the UI and the test code are decoupled. The structured test code in Tellurium makes it much easier to refactor and maintain the code.

The composite locator uses UI element attributes to define the UI, and the actual locator (for example, XPath or jQuery selector), is generated at runtime. Any updates to the composite locator lead to different runtime locators, and the changes inside the UI module are localized. 

The Group locating is used to remove the dependency of the UI objects from external UI elements (for example, external UI changes do not affect the current UI module for most cases), so that test code is robust and responsive to changes up to a certain level.

Tellurium uses the _respond_ attribute in a UI object to specify JavaScript events, and the rest is handled automatically by the framework itself. 

UI templates are a powerful feature in Tellurium used to represent many identical UI elements or a dynamic size of different UI elements at runtime. This is extremely useful in testing dynamic web contexts such as a data grid. 

The _Option_ UI object is designed to automatically address dynamic web contexts with multiple possible UI patterns.

Re-usability is achieved by the UI module when working within one application and by Tellurium Widgets when working across different web applications. With the Domain Specific Language (DSL) in Tellurium, UI modules can be defined and test code written in a very expressive way. 

Tellurium also provides flexibility to write test code in Java, Groovy, or pure DSL scripts.

= History =

Tellurium was started in June 2007 as an internal project and became [http://code.google.com/p/aost an open source project on Google Code] in June 2008. We release on a regular basis and the latest release 0.7.0 will be out next month.

http://tellurium-users.googlegroups.com/web/telluriumhistory.png?gda=GD0dGUYAAAA7fMi2EBxrNTLhqoq3FzPraJRXcLj8Noz0FE1yhGyZ4COuya-lMN3FcE5U0RlBOxV3riz0RlMs_1ov_iNdB7P8E-Ea7GxYMt0t6nY0uV5FIQ&gsc=jkTIIgsAAACI9y1tsPXdLT5_3omT2FAm
  
= Team and Community =

[http://code.google.com/p/aost/wiki/ContributorList Tellurium Team] consists of 4-5 active team members and couple more contributors. We have [http://groups.google.com/group/tellurium-users Tellurium user group] and [http://groups.google.com/group/tellurium-developers Tellurium developer group]. Latest update information are available on [ http://twitter.com/TelluriumSource twitter]. Tellurium also provides a community repository on [http://github.com/telluriumsource/tellurium GitHub] so that anyone can fork Tellurium and contribute back to us. Tellurium wiki documents will be migrated to [http://telluriumsource.org/display/TE/Home TelluriumSource.org], a domain owned by us.

= Tellurium Sub-projects =

Tellurium began as a small core project and quickly generated multiple sub-projects including: UDL, Core, Engine, Widget extensions, Maven Archetypes, and Trump sub-projects as shown in the following diagram.
 

http://tellurium-users.googlegroups.com/web/NewTelluriumSubProjects.png?gda=Keiwck0AAAA7fMi2EBxrNTLhqoq3FzPrmxvX91cGpWri3vpq-ffL5gWcRD5mEYHWd5K6yh20QaANn3YpWhqxIh1wjgDZawPl5Tb_vjspK02CR95VRrtmeQ&gsc=jkTIIgsAAACI9y1tsPXdLT5_3omT2FAm


  * Tellurium UDL: [http://code.google.com/p/aost/wiki/TelluriumUIDDescriptionLanguage Tellurium UID Description Language] (UDL) Parser.
  * Tellurium Engine: Based on Selenium Core with UI module, CSS selector, command bundle, and exception hierarchy support.
  * Tellurium Core: UI module, APIs, DSL, Object to Runtime Locator mapping (OLM), and test support.
  * Tellurium Extensions: Dojo Javascript widgets and ExtJS Javascript widgets.
  * Tellurium UI Module Plugin (Trump): [http://code.google.com/p/aost/wiki/TrUMP A Firefox plugin] to automatically generate the UI module after users select the UI elements from the web under testing.
  * Tellurium Maven Archetypes: [http://code.google.com/p/aost/wiki/UserGuide070TelluriumSubprojects#Tellurium_Maven_Archetypes Maven archetypes] to generate skeleton Tellurium JUnit and Tellurium TestNG projects using one Maven command.
  * Tellurium Reference Projects: Use Tellurium project site as examples to illustrate how to use different features in Tellurium and how to create Tellurium test cases.