#summary Tellurium User Guide: Tellurium Architecture
#labels Phase-Implementation,Phase-Support

(A PDF version of the user guide is available [http://aost.googlecode.com/files/TelluriumUserGuide.0.6.0.pdf here])

<wiki:toc max_depth="5" />

= Tellurium Architecture =


Tellurium architecture is shown in the following diagram.

http://tellurium-users.googlegroups.com/web/telluriumnewarchitecture070.png?gda=0Cry3VEAAAA7fMi2EBxrNTLhqoq3FzPraJRXcLj8Noz0FE1yhGyZ4Cj9p0mTDab5g6bwssabHmxXgg0UR0O9X9-Irzu_uB8AUwk_6Qi3BU8HCN0q6OYwM5VxXgp_nHWJXhfr7YhqVgA&gsc=jkTIIgsAAACI9y1tsPXdLT5_3omT2FAm

There are two major parts, i.e., the Tellurium Core, which does Java/Groovy object to runtime locator mapping, event handling, and command bundling. The Tellurium Engine is embedded inside the Selenium server and is a test driving engine for Tellurium. The two are connected by Selenium RC.

= How Tellurium Works =

Tellurium works in two mode. The first one is to work as a wrap of the Selenium framework.

http://tellurium-users.googlegroups.com/web/TelluriumRunningMode1.png?gda=qNEKqUsAAAA7fMi2EBxrNTLhqoq3FzPro_2kwg16ExMe9wfbYSgXCQdoVt8RgM6Q8hpOVtSHouVBqckrS9zbalJdCfH3I_v9BkXa90K8pT5MNmkW1w_4BQ&gsc=jkTIIgsAAACI9y1tsPXdLT5_3omT2FAm

That is to say, Tellurium core generates the runtime locator based on the attributes in a UI module and then pass the selenium calls to Selenium core with Tellurium extensions.

Tellurium is evolving to its own test driving Engine and the work mode is different as shown in the following sequence diagram.

http://tellurium-users.googlegroups.com/web/TelluriumRunningMode2.png?gda=kwN3wEsAAAA7fMi2EBxrNTLhqoq3FzPro_2kwg16ExMe9wfbYSgXCQdoVt8RgM6Q8hpOVtSHouWqzYvvFLF4HH6kcFg68ZqyBkXa90K8pT5MNmkW1w_4BQ&gsc=jkTIIgsAAACI9y1tsPXdLT5_3omT2FAm

The Tellurium Core will convert the UI module into a JSON representation and pass it to Tellurium Engine for the first time when the UI module is used. The Tellurium Engine uses the Santa algorithm to locate the whole UI module and put it into a cache. For the sequent calls, the cached UI module will be used instead of locating them again. Another new features in Tellurium 0.7.0 is the [http://code.google.com/p/aost/wiki/Tellurium070Update#Macro_Command Macro Command], which combine multiple commands into one batch and then send them to Tellurium engine in one call to reduce the round trip latency. For more new features in 0.7.0, please read [http://code.google.com/p/aost/wiki/Tellurium070Update What's New in Tellurium 0.7.0].